so you guys think you're way up here and
then you beat yourself
up for being over here and so you kind
of think of yourself in like kind of a
negative way right but
at the end of the day like all of this
is built
upon the premise that you're up here
there we go welcome folks welcome
um so thank you guys very much for being
here let's go ahead
and start with um just introductions
so uh do you guys just want to tell us a
little bit about um so tell us what
you'd like to be referred to as
what you go by and then tell us a little
bit about um
kind of your story is like you're kind
of identifying as a gifted kid and what
that was like
okay um so i'm said i'm in
my final year of my college program
and so my story is in elementary school
in high school i was able to
like i didn't always hit it out of the
park but in the places that counted i
could always make things work
but then when i got to university there
were uh
there were so for example there were all
these other tasks like finding good
internships and
uh helping out professors with research
assistantships and
doing side projects and all of these
were things where i either
like did where my results were mediocre
compared to my peers or like i didn't do
them at all so
i went from a place where everything i
did like i could make work to
a state where everything i touched just
turned into ash
okay
uh i'm outcome uh do you want me to yeah
yeah
i'm outcome cool um so
and i was like labeled as like a gifted
kid like early on
uh when i was like in uh elementary
school um
and like throughout like elementary in
middle school i never really had any
problems with like any of my classes
um one of the feelings that i always
like associate with is like there was
kind of like this weird like
cast system where like i was like pulled
out of my classes and like
uh like taught different material uh and
i was always kind of like separated from
like everyone else who wasn't in like
the advanced classes and then coming
into like high school
when i had to like uh when i went to
like public high school in my second
year of high school
i had to like reintegrate so that was a
weird feeling and then on top of that
things just stopped coming as easily to
me and i realized that i never really
developed like
good study skills good time management
things like that and i was just
consistently falling behind
and this last semester in college has
kind of been like the
this uh it was my first semester in
college has been like the um
all of that like kind of conglomerating
together and i just did really poorly
and um
i'm actually dropping out this year and
i'm joining the military
okay um okay uh i'm
b i guess uh uh so basically
uh same story like uh labeled gifted kid
in like elementary school
um i did like pretty fine up until like
like pretty much until high school
finished um i graduated here early
um from like an aerospace academy uh
but i didn't really want to do like
aerospace stuff so
um i thought i might want to do
engineering things so
um i i had like a full ride scholarship
essentially
and i lost it because i um
like failed a couple of classes for
really silly reasons
um and so i decided to try to do like
engineering things so i got like a job
at an engineering firm
and um it's just not something i wanted
to do
so now i've just been doing nothing for
like the past year and a half
okay
um i can go um i go by seoul and um
yeah so i was like early on um labeled
as gift a kid or our school district had
a gifted and talented
education program uh they called it like
gate um
and yeah same story elementary middle
school high school or just like a breeze
um basically i put in minimal effort and
still got good grades which made it so
that
i didn't feel like i didn't even have
like the energy to try
uh at school and i i
that's basically where i'm at now in
university islam i'm still trying to do
the bare minimum to get good grades and
i can't find the energy to
pursue other things or like work on side
projects or try to find an internship um
yeah that's where i'm at okay
all right and i'm jacob um
yeah i grew up you know
there wasn't a gift and talented program
when i was growing up but like
kind of like forging went ahead um ended
up going to a prestigious college just
kind of
going down this constant
just kind of just going down this path
of like you know pursuing
like getting good academics and
you know just kind of going down this
vague stem
engineering path until like junior year
where all i was doing was massive and
massive massive tons of work
and like was not really socially
connected at all
and at that point i had like no
internships and whatnot it just kind of
broke down
um and then almost failed my thesis
senior year
and i had i got one job at like an
investment
firm for like four months that i ended
up like
having to leave because of anxiety and
yeah it's just
things just built up until it broke so
wow so
hmm can i think for a second
sure yeah absolutely we have to play
this card early today
um so i guess let me just think out loud
so i think they're kind of two
general we've got kind of a fork in the
road
one is how you got to be here
and the second is what you're doing
about it
right so like i'm hearing like different
things
like so some people have sort of you
know dropped out
haven't really been doing a whole lot
sort of didn't cut it some people are
sort of like
scraping by and then you've got alcohol
here who's like decided to drop out of
college and join the military
right and and so
you know i find myself kind of being
curious about
you know like and because you guys use
like some common terms right you guys
kind of talk about the extra stuff
like why it's hard to do the extra stuff
you guys talk about
lack of work ethic or like other things
that have sort of been responsible
for you know your struggles now
and then you guys also talk about um
you know the caste system and sort of
being treated differently so i think
those are all sort of things we can dig
into
i wonder a little bit about um
you know you guys talk about lacking
motivation and some of these other
things
but um i i wonder a little bit about
whether that's actually like a
misdiagnosis
and sort of digging into what it is that
like really holds you back
so if you think about applying for an
internship like literally what is the
problem that you run into
um so those are all kinds of directions
and
like i said we can sort of talk a little
bit about what it's like to be where you
are now and how you guys
made the decisions that you did yeah so
i mean is there anything that uh
actually so maybe this is a good way
so is there anything about anything else
did you hear anything from any of your
colleagues that you guys are kind of
curious about
yeah actually um the military thing
stood out like um
it's just a very big life change and
it's something that's like very scary
and
something i would never um probably
never consider doing so i'm curious
about what
made you decide to do that outcome
um yeah so one of the things like one
another like driving factor in me like a
lot of the anxiety i feel with like
going to college
is um i feel like
like i feel like in the non-stem fields
there's like a real
lack of like um like a defined path on
like how to get to like an established
career
like if you do like art drawing video
editing those can all be hard fields to
get into
because you have to go through like
independent people
like independent firms and things like
that and it's a very like
rigorous um something you like place
upon yourself like for like you you do
have to do like a lot of freelance for
like journalism and for uh drawing
and for video editing uh and then even
in the stem fields as well i feel like
there's a large over saturation
and so one of the driving forces for me
is like financial stability
and i live in the us and i mean we put a
lot of money into our military and
um you know whether or not that's a good
or bad thing is
kind of political but like at the end of
the day
that would get me you know established
as like having a career
and like kind of starting off um in a
way that like
college really doesn't give me that
level of like financial security um
and i'm doing like academic things as i
go into the navy
uh like i'm doing like a nuclear program
um and so i like i uh one of the things
like i hope that like um
i work i know that i work well with like
a very like regimented schedule
which is something that like military
academics is like notorious for
prescribing to its students
uh so i know i can like function well in
that type of environment
um and it is like a lot of hard stem
which is like something that i am good
at like just naturally
so it should come easier than if i was
doing like psychology major or something
like that
um but it's at the end of the day it
really is just kind of like
a deal of like financial security it's
available and it seems like a good
career path for me
a good way for me to get like
established as like
you know in my life
i think that makes you the bravest out
of all of us here because
the rest of us are like either we're
failing or just crawling by
and and you managed like you mentioned
before in one of our early
earlier conversations that your parents
were not really
on board with you joining the military
so
yeah i guess i commend you for having
the courage to make that move
thank you yeah that's i mean it's a lot
of it's like stressful i guess but it's
at the end of the day like it gives me a
lot of like
like i i so one of the things is like
i've never been like diagnosed with
anything but i've always struggled with
like anxiety like social anxiety
uh performance anxiety uh like
existential dread about like the future
and things like that
and so like the military just like
having like that thing where it's like
oh yeah you go in
and like after i get through basic
training like i'm kind of set
like i'm just kind of like i'm just in
there and i'm good to go for like the
next eight years of my life i'll have my
medical my
my dental and like everything covered
and that like like the amount of like
weight that that takes off of my chest
like like i can't even like
speak to how amazing that is to me
i didn't really relate to that like
wanting like um a step-by-step
sort of program that at the end will
give you security for sure i can uh
yeah i think that's really good
one of the things sorry
yeah uh one of the things that stood out
and uh this is just kind of like
i think it was uh i want to say it was
seoul that said it but it was like
or i think we all kind of like talked on
it but like like scraping by and like
doing the bare minimum
i didn't really like put words to that
but that's certainly like a feeling that
like resonates really well with me
of like i feel like through all like all
of my academics it's always just been
like a
like a very like um it's not so much
that i never had to try it's just that
like i only tried
to the point that it was like beneficial
to my grades
or the things that i could put like a
quantitative value on
where i could be like okay i sit down i
do my homework for an hour
i get like six study sheets done you
know that
that does x amount to my grade that
gives me you know
so much about like so much um
uh like points towards like the end of
my year total like if i need like a
thousand points for a semester then that
gives me like 100 points like
it's very easy for me to like
compartmentalize that and be like okay
this is how i do it
um and that's like not being able to do
that with like college
like for like a career goal that's what
scares me
um but like i think there are like other
examples of like
all of us growing up just kind of doing
the bare minimum of like that's just
kind of how we were raised
to some extent yeah so let me ask
let me ask y'all are you guys envious of
alchem
um i'm happy for him that he's found
something that he
feels comfortable doing and he's been
able to make a decision because i
haven't found that so i'm not envious
that um
like he's going to the military but i'm
i i really admire and maybe in some
aspects i'm jealous of being able to
just make a huge like decision like that
and and go through with it
i feel like like in my world or in my
mind the university is just like
a fact of reality like you ha i have to
go to university and i have to find a
job at the end of it with my degree
or like like what else is there in life
almost it feels
like that powerful to me as a construct
would you all say said jacob
what do y'all think
i mean i wouldn't say
i mean for me university wasn't that
so for me a lot of it was actually
trying to like
escape the ruts of the university
paradigm because it was like
my school is just very
much trying to
it like made everything competitive like
even the social scene
was like prestige oriented
which was yeah so it's like
so um maybe maybe at some point i was
but it's like maybe like in high school
i was but it's like
through college is kind of like
disillusioned to that
okay what were you saying said
i'm not i'm not envious of alchem in the
sense that i resent him
but uh but i guess hearing about
how well it's
i'm not envious in the sense that i
resent him but i look back on myself and
i think
goddammit said um what happened to you
and when you say what happened to you
what what
what are you what ballpark are you
pointing that question in
having taking steps towards
some semblance of a career being able to
do have some kind of
employable skill like i have i have like
a mixed bag but they're all sort of
like i obtained them just by chance i
stumbled into whatever
internships that would take me and
they're all like a mixed bag of niche
things that don't really fit together
whereas alchem seems to have taken
like a like a direct step that will
you know put some it'll add some
direction
into into his future i've just been like
sitting around here
not doing much so i i see that you guys
are steering clear basically of the word
envious but y'all are happy to use words
like admire
it has this negative connotation to it i
think it does
right and and so i think it's
interesting because like what's the
difference between admiration and envy
um well okay uh like you use the word
yourself right um it's if you resent the
other person
for their ability as well um and you
don't like
yeah interesting so you guys are you're
saying that envy
lead is coupled with resentment
i think so that's how i envision it okay
so i don't end i don't envy alkaline
that way i admire okay
so um and would you guys sort of
i thought sed did a pretty good job of
like voicing what he admires about
alchem would you guys agree with that
sentiment that like
basically alcum is like he's like taking
a step forward in a definitive way
yeah absolutely okay so if we're kind of
saying
i i want to be able to do that too
let's try to understand what how
what motivates alchem to take this step
forward
yeah how did you like start making that
decision
i guess i mean for i mean if i'm keeping
it a buck it was the
financial insecurity like um
like one of the things is i have like a
bit of a rocky relationship with my
parents and so i was moved out for a bit
and dealing with my own finances uh when
you don't have a college degree or like
any real
like uh superseding skills to merit the
only thing you can really go into
is the service industry and that [ __ ]
will like
work you dry and like you'll come home
at the end of your days
tired and beaten and it's sometimes like
60 hour work weeks
and i i was doing that on top of like
going to my community call it like my
community college and like
that shit's brutal that pardon my french
but that is brutal stuff to go through
and like
i kind of was coming towards the end of
this year and i was just like
i i can't do this like
the whatever it whatever this is like
it's not worth it
for me and so i was desperate to find
something and
um i like in the school that i went to
like my high school there was always a
strong presence of like military
recruitment
and i had like never seriously
considered it in the past past but i had
like
a few of my friends had gone into it um
and i know some people some guys in my
friends of mine who have been like
really happy with it and so that was
just like
it was kind of like there and available
and i you know sat down with my
recruiter and i talked to him about it
and i'm happy with the decision and a
lot of other
like the other people in my life were
pretty happy for me and so
i just kind of said you know
we ball and did it so what did you guys
hear
motivated outcome desperation
yep yeah that's yeah
so it's interesting right because we
think about motivation as a good thing
like we think about it as a positive
quality like we strive for motivation
but what alchem is telling us is that
his
motivation is born of desperation
and and what we're sort of hearing is
almost like a bottom of the barrel kind
of
story where like he like he hit rock
bottom like there's just
there's nowhere else to go but down and
it doesn't seem like
there's a whole lot of chance to go up
and oddly enough
i think that there's there's a lot about
alchem that i i think i can sort of
personally relate to as a gifted kid who
struggled i mean i think
out of all the groups that we've uh sort
of talked about i think you know i
identify with you all the most
and i think there's a certain
desperation to it
um i think they're also like elements of
like seeding control right so alchem
like you guys don't trust yourselves
because you're not gonna do any more
than the bare minimum
and so like all alchem has to do is like
sign up and then there's no take backs
right he he freezes absolutely he frees
himself of his mind
because it doesn't matter whether he
wants to or feels like it or whatever
because they're gonna
they're not gonna give him a choice and
and so he's like sort of seeding control
of his life and then like relying on
them to provide as he said he he
responds well to regimented structure
which i imagine actually all of you all
of y'all will
that if if there's a situation that's
challenging
and regimented and doesn't give you guys
a choice then y'all will actually do
really well
i i think though it's kind of
interesting because um
you know i'm kind of curious about
ego alchem do you think that your
your ego has anything to do with your
decision
can you elaborate a bit more on what you
like
i mean
i don't know could you could you like
ask the question a different way i'm
kind of confused by it
absolutely um
how do you feel about yourself joining
the military
i mean i'm i'm happy with the decision i
like i think it's a good decision yeah
like growing up
um i've always had like like i feel like
the reason i always did well in school
is because like it wasn't a choice
it was like you know you wake up like
you know and your mom is like all right
get in the car
or you know it's like hey the school
school bus is here
or like your dad takes you or whatever
the situation is and you go and you sit
you can't really like leave
right and your teachers are your
authority figures they tell you what to
do
and you just kind of you got the
regimented schedule
and it i mean it feels really good that
like
it's kind of like obviously it's not
like super self-imposed but the fact
that it's like
it's a decision that i'm making but i
also know that like once i
kind of like what you stick with what
you said once i signed that we know
whether or not i want to do it
i'm in i'm in for however many years i
signed up for right
um like at that point that's pretty like
it feels great
yeah so let me ask the question a
different way how do you feel telling
other people that you're joining the
military
kind of weird uh i so
um i mean the military is
is like a really good opportunity for me
but it's like out of
it's kind of out of pocket for me uh
it's not something that i would like
ever really consider doing um
it was kind of something like it was
born out of desperation and it's not
really like within
myself to do it like i wouldn't like
just by the choice between like going to
college like if you had asked me three
years ago i would have never said i was
going to the military
that would have been like the bottom of
the list um so i'm kind of apprehensive
about it
um but like the way i tell people about
it
um and how do people usually respond
they're normally like oh wow that's a
great decision you know that'll be great
for you
and all of that stuff so what did y'all
notice about everyone shared their story
and how did who did we gravitate towards
the one who'd made a decision or who'd
done something
right so what when alcam shares what
he's done what is he met with
praise praise
admiration and so let's just think a
little bit about
you know before the decision outcome so
where was he before he decided to join
the military where was he
very low spot right
so failed out of college sounds like or
dropped out or something
yeah and and so so i i think because
i i sort of saw pieces of this in myself
i don't think joining the military is a
bad idea by the way just for the record
but i want us to understand a little bit
about
why we make decisions and like what
drives us
so like alchem gives us a very logical
reason
the first reason he gave us was super
logical it's for financial security
it makes sense like if he's like anxious
about his financial security and whatnot
like it's a good reason
we dig a little bit further and we get
to desperation
right that like even though he sort of
talks about financial insecurity that
like
he's living this life and he wakes up
one day and he's like i can't live this
life anymore
i have to live a different one
and i think oddly enough what you guys
maybe admire about him
and here i could be projecting but i
almost remember like i used to wish for
catastrophe
i i used to wish for being tested you
know i
i wanted to like just like what i what i
was what i hated more than anything else
was like
limbo and like not needing to scrape by
like i would have been fine if if you
had said
i'm gonna drop you into an arena and you
have to fight a lion to the death and
i'm gonna give you a club i would have
been like
hell yeah let's go baby yeah
right give me death or give me glory
like i just can't stay stuck in between
anymore
you guys feel that way oh yes
tell me about that absolutely jacob
oh there's so many so i the the jo
like the weird thing i tell my friends
honestly i'd feel better when i'm sick
i'd actually be more productive when i
got
sick because like expectations would
drop and it's just like oh what can i
get done while i'm feeling crummy and i
actually get more done
but like there's so many i i there's
like
so many dimensions of like
like my anxiety dropped when cove had
happened
um i felt better and like more
eager to be productive when covet
occurred um
let's see what else uh
my mom recently got diagnosed with
cancer
and that wasn't great but it's like
it wasn't like crushing it was like
i think for like the week around that i
was like a little bit more productive
like it's it's very bizarre
like
is that something that you all can
relate to
maybe earlier i think um
i tried taking advantage of the fact
that i would act under
under um if i had no other choice and i
i tried i tried saying okay if i sign
myself for all these other things then
which will all be catastrophes if they
fail
then i'll do them but then i didn't and
then the catastrophe happened and i
survived and i realized that
i guess there is no way out maybe that's
just
yeah so like so so like you guys see
what y'all are doing is that you're not
it's actually brilliant and sad so like
what set is doing is he's
he recognizes that he can't motivate
himself
right so he like recruits the outside
world to put deadlines on to him
and the same thing that outcomes doing
it's like i'm gonna i can't control
myself so i'm going to create
a situation in which there's artificial
desperation and i'll be forced to act
and then sad really gets screwed because
he doesn't act
and then you know what the really
damning thing is about not acting
is that he survives
see if he had really been punished then
he would act the next time
does that make sense like the real
damning thing is that like the
consequences weren't bad enough
because if the consequences were bad
then if he did it again then he would
act
you all see that does that make sense
yeah so um yeah that's really what i'm
interested in is
um i feel like anyone if they're in a
life or death situation
gravitates towards life or if they're in
a catastrophic situation they do
anything they can to get out of it but
um
if you're not in that place how do you
go towards ambition or like success uh
yeah i i don't understand how people
have the energy for for that kind of
motivation and not not like um
just avoiding death
so tell us what it's like to not have
energy
right the extra stuff
i don't want revenge go ahead
okay um i um
oh well it doesn't feel great uh it's
like the days just kind of
slip by you do your work and then i
don't know you play some games um
and then like yeah the time just gets
filled with things that are
not really valuable to you but then you
don't even know what the things that
are valuable you don't know what is
valuable to you
so you just kind of
yeah time just looks fine that's the
best way i can describe it
it feels kind of like like monotonous or
anonymously monotonously not necessarily
flipping pages
like you're just kind of like going from
one day to the next
um like when i was going through this
last thing i was also working a lot and
it was just like this kind of like day
in day out
wake up do school go to work just like
kind of like this dread
and like whenever i had free time i was
like
like you know i was doing like partying
or like
doing drugs or like something to fill
the time
um and it was just like i don't know i
was like hellish
i could like feel myself kind of almost
like decaying
but it felt like i couldn't do anything
about it
like i couldn't take the first step
it's just like gray and dystopian
seriously like it is right oh yeah
absolutely
what i'm really appreciating is that
we're talking about this with a bunch of
[ __ ] gifted kids so the number of
syllables per word is so high
monotonously in dystopian
yeah it's just
it's rough out there for us yeah we are
we all just going through it
i said did you want to say something oh
um do you ever watch revenge of the sith
where anakin's
anakin's just burning up and obi-wan
screams at him for failing in his duties
to be the chosen one
it's like every day it's like i have two
choices it's either
it's either that or i numb myself and
there's
and there's no option to and like the
option to actually do
something is blocked by like a version
of me that that says
well we're not going to do that what are
you going to do about that said
and yeah so it's either numb myself or
screaming myself and nothing happens
either way
good you want to say something b
um i i don't know i i feel like
uh
any anything that i would say would be
kind of is kind of like really
overshadowed by
the kind of problems that i've like
heard i guess
um doesn't really feel relevant
say it anyway um
i it's just like basically echoing with
what they're saying and like to a lesser
extent
of um uh so like when i
got out of uh when i like lost my
scholarship and i'm like just basically
at home doing nothing um for like a year
and a half it's been
like awesome uh i haven't had to do
anything
right uh and just being able to coast
and
um play games all day and uh
you know maybe you know look for a job
sometimes and
or do something just to cast yeah
like i i there's no there's no
responsibility that i have to to take
care of
and it's kind of like scary that that
feels good so
i don't know so i have a question for
seth and the rest of all
who are you sad says i know who i am
right and it's either scream at myself
or be myself
so who are you
i wonder if that's a trick question
because um
who am i is a question i've been asking
myself for
every day for the past uh 19 years of my
life um
and it's and yeah it's evolved a lot
um but like at this point i kind of
separate myself from
the idea of like self or identity like i
separate identity and
what i consider to be the existence of
me if that makes any sense
i does it make sense to people
yeah well not really
not to me there's like two different
kinds of identities
i think there's one that you ascribe
yourself and then one that
other people ascribe you um
and it just depends which one you care
about more
will be uh more of who you are i don't
know
so not to get like overly philosophical
but the way that i see
like like there's like some like inner
me
that is just like experiences and
feelings
and then there's like an outer me that
is like actually can think and speak and
form thoughts and
has values beliefs ideas like ascribed
onto it
um and i want to be like
more i want to like dissolve all the
parts that are identity and just be like
okay existing
because i feel like identity puts a lot
of pressure on you too
well to be certain things
um and if you're not those things then
then who are you so like if you place
all
your value self-worth or who you are on
your identity then
when your identity is challenged you you
are challenged
so solely what is we'll get there
so who here resonates
with what soul is saying like who here
is like
sort of or like i'm not really too sure
or like yeah man
yeah i i didn't forget it the first but
the second time
i kind of like i kind of get it for me
the word i used to describe it is like a
mantle
it's like this i like this like ideal
self
that like i would love to live into that
i would love to be
uh but like and not even like in like
um like overly high standards sometimes
sometimes it's just like a pretty low
bar
um and it's sometimes it's just hard for
me to like live into that
like it's hard for me to reach there and
it feels kind of like defeating
and so i'd certainly get the feeling of
like kind of just wanting to be like
like detached from that or like like get
rid of it just kind of like cast it
aside
because i often feel like when i don't
live into it i'm disappointed with
myself
yeah and the hard thing about the mantle
i i really love that you tossed in that
detail outcome is that
oftentimes you expect so little from
yourself
and that's what's so crushing when you
can't even do that
yeah right it's like one thing to be
perfect but it's like another thing to
like okay let me just like work on my
resume for like 15 minutes today
and you can't even do that yeah
crushing so
i'll i'm gonna ask sad but you know once
again
anyone can kind of jump in i appreciate
when people do so sad when you say that
either you're screaming at yourself or
you're being yourself like what are
like who is that cell like what who are
you tell us about
who you are and how you view yourself
i guess i see myself as so like i had a
good shot
at i guess uh
i suppose i have a vision of of myself
that would get
things right you know like who would
have gotten the right internship or
who would have actually um put more
effort into those responsibilities or
would have prevented the catastrophe
and then there's but then who i am is
is the person who failed to do all of
that so
sometimes sometimes i feel like i'm just
a guy who
who had a shot and threw it away and now
i've just missed the boat
and i'm like stranded here in limbo
does anybody resonate with that feeling
b can you tell us like what your
experience of that is like or what you
think about yourself or what thoughts
you have
about yourself um
sure so um i guess
in terms of like missing missing the
shot right i had like this
you know full like full ride of you know
i can
pretty much get through all of college
and or at least four years and
um have no debt and you know that's what
everyone wants right so
i have this this you know ability to do
this
and you know i sleep in for a test
that's worth 30 percent of my grade
i just don't do any work in a class that
i don't think matters but uh then when
those two things add together the
you know i just lose my whole
scholarship right so
um it's
like i i still have this ego of oh i
know i can do it
uh but i didn't uh and this like doesn't
match up
uh of i don't know yeah
so yeah i missed i missed my shot
yeah so let's talk about that ego for a
second like i know i can do it
what do you guys think are you guys
capable
or not
depends
jacob you want to go yeah i i mean it
it depends on the task
and personally also depends whether i
can zone into it
like like in college in high school like
everything was like
kind of like if i could get into a flow
state and like focus on it i could
get it done and if i couldn't it was
just like
pulling teeth and
like as i got out of culture did more
and more stuff the proportion of things
that were
pulling teeth uh increased
um
and so it's like
yeah like i i'm not certain if i could
hold down like a full-time job right now
or like
yeah i feel like you know like certain
problems i like very good
like i feel like there's a very like
there's some set of things that i can do
very well and there's just like but like
a general holistic life probably not so
how does it feel to say that jacob to
say those words out loud
uh i mean i've been coming to terms with
it for like
the last few months so it's not
oh it's not like a huge shock at the
moment but
i don't know it's been relieving coming
to terms with that so
actually over time what is it what do
you guys think that jacob is coming to
terms with
his idea that he's in some sense like
short of his ideal self and that's who
he is now
what would you say jacob how how
accurate is that
um i mean the way i describe it with
people is that like
like the entire time like it's like
you're preparing for a war
like i've been making like a jet like
working really hard to make like
a giant like battleship turret and i get
to the end and they're like all right
are you ready to mount it on your
battleship it's like
no i don't it's i just have like this
massive gun that i have to like
carry around with like a little bicycle
and chain
because like there's nothing there to
actually support like you know
going through like four years of college
and developing like eight billion
technical skills and like
philosophy of the universe when it's
just like
you know i can't sleep and i like
struggle to take care of an apartment
and like
i can't network whatsoever and like
i have no like the i haven't even
started thinking about
like at no point was like developing the
navigation computer to figure out where
we're actually going with this thing
and it's like so
yes i can send a 500 kilogram projectile
very far
if it's like standing still placed right
in front of me
but we're not doing anything useful with
that thing
so what i'm hearing is that
jacob has faith that he can do it in a
perfect set of circumstances
right if the stars align and he's
but his his temperamental self otherwise
he feels somewhat
incapable you know when you factor in
like the real world and
all the problems that come with it yeah
yeah
right now i think there's a lot of like
powerful imagery there about the sense
of it slipping away
right because jacob used to be decent at
the flow state
and i don't know if you guys sort of
felt this but then like something
happens and it becomes harder
like and then each day becomes like like
you used to be okay
you used to be able to pull it off often
enough
and then you see yourself slipping then
like
you can barely pull it off often enough
and then you can't really pull it off
as much as you need to and then it
becomes less
and less and it's sort of like okay so
you're
you know i think someone used the phrase
like i missed the boat
right so like the boat is there and
you've got 15 minutes to board and
you're like okay that's no big deal and
then five minutes to board and it's like
oh god
and they're like pulling they're like
pulling the you know the walkway away
and like if you run right now you can
still like
jump across and like get on board and
then the jump becomes longer
and then you're like but you can still
do it and then like you like it starts
to pull away and maybe you can jump in
the water and even if you jump in the
water
like they'll throw you a line and you
can climb on board but like every day
goes by and it's like slipping away and
you're like
watching it slip
away
what's that like soul i see you nodding
emphatically
um yeah i definitely felt that um
during like early no last year when
i was in a class and like yeah the
classes are always so
easy at the beginning and you understand
everything
and you're doing the assignments
everything's just going well and then
each lecture gets a little more and more
abstract and difficult for you to
understand
and uh at the end you're like okay i
need to
like review everything study everything
make sure i have everything right so i
can actually
get past the final and um and pass and
maybe you don't even do that because
you are just procrastinating or
something
um i feel to the question you asked
earlier about like whether you're
capable
um i want to see if other people relate
to this too
i feel like i could learn to do anything
if i had the energy to that i don't have
like
the way it's modeled in my head is that
i don't have the energy to do
any of that or the passion whatever you
want to call it
yeah yeah i feel that
i don't know if that's exclusive to us
though um
i think uh
the difference between or or one of like
the major
differences between like uh like a
gifted kid or
like you know like an average kid i
don't know would be
one is told that they're
like like better basically from a young
age and
you know they have this ideology that
they get to keep up
they get to say oh i am this so i can
push forward with it
um and i think that that
that gets you so far uh or only so far
um could i um rephrase for a second um
yeah yeah so i i definitely understand
that like everyone has this problem
obviously but um what i mean
in the aspect that's particular to us is
that um
like do you guys like doubt your
intelligence or like your ability to
to learn things and process things
quickly because that's something that
stays like constant to me
and it's like the only barrier if i
could just unlock that potential by like
giving it a boost
with energy would be like that's like
the only barrier to me is the energy
thing and like
i have confidence in almost every other
aspect
of like being able to learn and do
things
yeah that's kind of what i mean when i
talk about like the battleship analogy
it's like
yes if i could support this i could
level
everything but i can't support it
and it sucks yeah like i i feel like
i've got like the like the
the baseline like like i feel like
maybe i don't know maybe that's like the
intuitive problem solving or like
something
like i've got the things that i need to
like like if i wanted to like learn a
new skill
or like like try to like you know um
like work on like marketing myself for
like marketing you know x product i'm
working on or whatever like i feel like
i could do that
but it just feels like i yeah like i
don't know the energy like i don't have
the passion for it like i just kind of
like
sit down and one of the things is like i
start asking myself like why am i
like why am i doing this you know like
what for what reason and i get bogged
down in like this endless loop of like
well
you know like why is it important to me
and then like i come upon like
self-identity like who am i
why is it important to like me why it's
important to like my ideal self and i
just get like
shut down and i kind of like shut myself
down before i even have the ability to
like
engage with like the the critical
thinking skills that like
that i know or at least i hope that i
have
for you guys kind of relate to this idea
of like shutting yourself down before
you even get started
yeah can you guys share what that what
your experience of that is
so it starts with like an idea and
you're very excited about it
and then you think about every other
idea you've had in the past
and it tapering off and failing in the
middle of it or towards the end
and you're like you know let's get ahead
of the curve on this one and not waste
all that time
and by waste that time you mean try yeah
yeah it's not quite the same for me but
it'll be like
i have like i have like
several projects that i've been like
working on over like the whole
few years and it's like you know it's
like
if i really want like one of these
things to go like i have to sacrifice
and it's like do i really want to like
is this worth sacrificing devoting
myself to and it's like
and then like you know i'll get into
like that mindset where it's like well
previously like you know sacrificing
like devoting yourself single-mindedly
has
you know landed me in very miserable
deen states and
or situations where i'm like unbalanced
and miserable and so it's just like
i kind of linger in that
state of like you know kind of
poking at a bunch of different things
and like kind of keeping the dream alive
kind of
but
said it sounded like you had something
to say oh
um i guess for me it's like
uh maybe it was easier earlier but now
that i've had i guess
uh four or five years of seeing
myself being able to do things but just
not doing them
it's like when i try something when i
think about trying something new it's
like i see
the whole history of all of all my
failures staring back at me and accusing
me
so i just don't start because facing
that is just too terrifying
what's terrifying about it
i guess so there's there's the numbing
path and there's the screaming path and
so i can i can keep myself kind of
stable
when when i'm numbing myself but then to
to get to face that history again then
like
all the old voices that scream at me and
say like
why did you [ __ ] this up this is so easy
um
that just it's just too harsh
i can't i can't like function when
when when it feels like
yeah i'm not i'm not too sure how to put
it towards but it it feels like i
it feels like reality changes and i see
myself for what i am and what i am is
like someone who has failed and will
fail
and like every step of the way i'm doing
things imperfectly is like
and a voice in my mind says ah yes you
see i was right all along
we've been through this before i know
you we've seen this
i know what you're doing
it gets even harder because it's like
you get stuck in this numbing space and
the only thing
to like you know you have to get out of
that numbing space but the only thing
waiting there is this onslaught of pain
and it's like
hmm
so you know
there's a part of me like there are a
lot of questions i still want to ask but
i i sort of feel like
if we start asking questions about you
know i really liked what bee said about
sort of the expectations that you grew
up with and like how you were
taught to expect things from yourself
you know what the impact of being told
that you're capable and bright and
talented like
i think that's really important to talk
about but i
i also feel like we're sort of bizarrely
kind of at the climax of the discussion
right now because this is
it right i feel like we have found
the problem do you guys feel that
i can't really put a name to it yeah
i i mean i can't put a name to the
problem at least but i mean do you guys
feel like
this is the problem like whatever we're
talking about right now
is the problem yeah right so you can
call it like motivation you can call it
passion you can call it whatever
but like there's this idea of like
decaying
right that you're like stuck in this
place and like
you're like at some halfway point
and outside there's a terrible storm and
either you open the door and then like
you face the storm and then you like
walk for a little while and there's no
end in sight the storm is going back so
you turn around and you kind of like
you go back to your like halfway point
you know the save zone like and then you
you save and then you're at the end
you refill your hp and then you just
hang out there because there's nothing
there's nothing on the outside
and then what happens is since y'all are
smart like every time
you leave and you don't get anywhere
then you stop wanting to leave because
what's the point
like said said we've been here before
what did you expect dumbass
did you expect the hurricane to stop at
some point
this is who you are this is what your
life has become
why bother and then we get to be
like actually this life is pretty sweet
like sure i feel like a failure as a
human being
but i've got my snug blanket pretty
comfortable it's all good
to stop some noobs from time to time
it's not that bad
so then what happens is you guys start
making this halfway point your own
right it's not transient for you anymore
it starts to become a home
you start to decorate and turn it into
your own place
and then you start to feel stuck
because like the longer you stay there
like the more comfortable it becomes
and then there's like there's just
something and then like now this is
where you guys are
where like you wish what would happen is
like some kind of dragon would show up
and like knock down your
temporary shelter and then you guys
would have no choice
you know it's like the at the end of
metroid have you guys played metroid any
of the metroids
it's boomers now see it's [ __ ] sad
i've played tons of
right right so at the end of metroid
they have this really cool mechanic
where like everything
starts falling apart you have three
minutes to get out
like it happens at the end of all the
metroid games you have to escape like
after you beat the last boss you have to
escape in time
and like that's what you guys want you
want like you know flooding where you
have no choice where you've got to go
like you've just got to go
give me death or give me glory
absolutely
because this sort of like weird comfort
limbo kind of place and there's like
and every i like the the problem is that
the longer you stay
the stronger the hurricane outside
becomes because you are the hurricane
right the the longer you stay there the
more you beat yourself
up when you try to leave what did you
expect
dumbass and so each time you guys
try it's like it's terrible because like
each failure doesn't make you stronger
so you know we we say that what kills
you what doesn't kill you makes you
stronger right you guys heard that
phrase
i've heard it and strongly disagree what
would you say jacob
um
i'll know it just depends on what the
thing is
so i'll tell you what we say in medicine
which is quite bleak and we don't
advertise this very much
what doesn't kill you makes you stronger
or cripples you for life
because that's what happens in medicine
like when you get someone with a motor
vehicle accident
they survived and they have no legs
gg good job right because that's really
what life is like like life leaves marks
like trauma doesn't always result in
triumph like we see in the movies
sometimes what it results in is like
debilitating
complex ptsd in which people like suffer
for years
i guess this isn't sounding very hopeful
but i i think it's important to
understand
you know what you guys are facing
because i'm going to try to trick you in
a second
because i want you guys to like like i
think part of this pro part of the
problem here is that you guys are like
thinking about potential
and i think a lot of this stuff has to
do with like ego and identity in who you
think you are
and what you think you're capable of and
it's like not
respecting what your challenges are
it's like you guys don't respect what
you're actually fighting against you
think it's easy
you think it's minimal and therein lies
the problem
because like instead of treating it like
a lion you feel like you're losing to a
mouse
even though it's a lion and the more
that you recognize that it's actually a
lion and not a mouse
the funny thing is like that's gonna
create your best self
right that's gonna actually recruit like
give me death or give me glory
but the problem is that you guys don't
think you're facing a line like you you
you devalue your failures
so if you lose to something strong that
doesn't make you weak
but you guys think you're weak
does that make sense like it's a truth
of yourself that
like and and i think you guys have
started to realize this
right you all sort of started to figure
this out that like that's not really you
but that
you guys have been given this mantle
right like you guys have been given this
burden you're gifted things should be
easy for you dumbass
and so there's something that's actually
really devastating about gifted kids is
that they
they're not allowed to make mistakes
so if i i'd say there's one thing that's
holding you guys back it's that you guys
don't allow yourself to make a mistake
if you're stupid and you fail is that
okay
it depends on the failure okay
[ __ ] jacob with his five-head answer
overthinking things well i mean that
that like so like you know there's
something which you're just okay for me
to fail
but like you know like i'm considering
like career options and you know like
some of them are you know more stable
and like there's some of them are more
creative and you know like
running out my finances and like like
like getting evicted is not like
like there's certain like i have a hard
time determining whether potential
failures are worth it or not
are you allowed to fail jacob
am i allowed to fail
it's very esoteric they're like weird
for champ
yeah who's judging whether we're allowed
or not i guess it's us
right so this is the problem
i'm asking a yes or no question and what
are you guys
answering with
i don't know open response open response
i'm not allowed to fail too badly
okay right so i think the first thing
that you guys need
to let yourselves do is fail
but you don't like you guys can't even
[ __ ] for all your five-headedness
you guys can't even comprehend the
question like what does that mean
like do you guys see how foreign the
concept is to you
like well i understand the question i
just have a hard time answering it
because
um if i'm asked are you allowed to fail
i i guess i would um be like uh like if
i made a mistake or if i failed i would
be like oh dumbass don't do it again and
then
i actually move on pretty quickly after
that so i'm not sure that i'm
similar to everyone in that regard
okay so what i'm hearing from seoul is
yes i feel like i know that i can fail
but i i still always i just
like what said said like it goes back
it's like it goes into the repertoire of
like the
the however many years of [ __ ] that like
looks back at you and screams
yep like right so i can but it'll come
back and haunt me
no no but see that's the thing is you're
not allowing yourself
to fail so like like understand this so
the first thing is that
stock answer but generally speaking what
holds you back in life is you
right like that's just how it works
generally speaking and so what is it
about you that's holding yourself back
and you guys have done a beautiful job
of like describing it
right it's like the way that you
punish yourself in the way that you view
yourself you make a mistake
and then you yell at yourself for that
and then you start to believe
that you're someone who makes mistakes
you are a [ __ ] up you are a dumb ass
you're incapable
you're not going to be able to do it why
bother
and now suddenly like you're you know
you just don't realize who you are and
like you're playing the game with a
different character
and if you're playing the game with like
a different character like the character
who has like
two scales he has two skills instead of
like succeed or fail he has fail or fail
harder
it's like you can hit button one and you
can fail you can hit button two and fail
harder and like that's the
that's the game you guys are playing
and then the more you play that
character the more you level up your two
skills
which are fail and fail harder
and that's the voice right you're
leveling up that skill and then like you
beat yourself
up even more and then you tell yourself
like why bother you're a failure like
you're not able to do it see
i told you so
and so like you guys are operating under
the belief and i don't blame you for
this it's just like let's understand
right and i'm gonna i'm gonna zero in on
sad because i think
he's used like really good language to
describe this which is like
he's got two choices either fail or yell
at himself
and so what i'm hearing from you guys is
that you guys aren't allowed to fail and
there's a damn good reason that you guys
have been conditioned
like i don't think it's a coincidence
that all of you guys don't allow
yourself to fail
and i think like maybe alcum is letting
himself do that a little bit and i think
jacob's sort of getting there
but generally speaking i think that
there's there's like a reason why this
is a common pattern
i think it goes back to like what your
expectations were because early on
you weren't allowed to fail and so you
didn't understand what failing
looked or felt like right so like if i'm
feeding my three-year-old and she like
dropped something
on the floor that's something she's
allowed to do
like she's allowed to make mistakes
and it's like acceptable but i think the
challenge is that you guys were given i
love this
this phrase that malcolm said you guys
were given a mantle
right here we have b graduated one year
early
from an aerospace academy i don't even
understand what the [ __ ] what is that
i don't even heard of that it's just
like a
like a specialized academy so like i
mean
first of all they call it an academy
right it's not a school i haven't gone
to a school that's not an academy but
cases right so what kind of
expectations does he put him on himself
when he's like i haven't gone to a
school that
isn't i haven't gone to a school that
isn't an academy
right and like i don't blame b for that
but like just think about what that does
to the psychology of a child like i'm
not going to send my
son to a [ __ ] school that's not an
academy with the plebs
y'all are different y'all are gifted
failure's not an option
gg too hot to handle percent
f felt felt too targeted
maybe he felt shame because he went to
school with cinnamon again
oh so said bro
yeah um welcome back yeah loading back
up
right so like i think it starts with
with sort of this idea that you guys
aren't
allowed to fail and then what happens is
you guys kind of get into this cycle
which is like every failure adds to the
voice that screams at you
but like do you guys see how like that
voice can only scream at you if you like
you're to blame or the outcome wasn't
acceptable
does that make sense or did i lose you
guys there i don't know how to explain
this but like
if you're allowed to fail there's no
reason for the voice to yell at you
because it's an acceptable outcome
yeah can somebody yeah
i was gonna say just like because when
you ask the question like are you
allowed to fail
uh who's who's judging whether you're
allowed or not and
if it's you then you just have to you
have to be okay with it
yeah so i'll ask you guys so like let's
assume for a moment it's you and we'll
it's always you by the way
but we'll we'll get to you know even
like the identity that you show other
people
like that's still you doing the judgment
it's that you're putting on the mask of
other people before you judge yourself
right yeah it's weird
it's always you doing judging i mean
sometimes you guys may have grown up
with people like and i mean
sort of untrue too because you guys did
grow up with people
judging you and then that's how you
learn how to judge yourself but like you
perceive it as being them but it's not
really them it's you it was them at some
point
but now it's not
right so like if we think about social
anxiety you think
other people are going to judge you that
way but other people are too busy
thinking about the way you're judging
them
they're not actually judging you but you
put yourself
you put on their mask when you judge
yourself
so now i'll ask you so like
whose judgment are you guys really
facing
right like think about your own life and
like your experience of the day to day
fine
and what do you say about yourself what
do you think about yourself
and not always the best things sometimes
of a dick to myself
i know but i feel like i deserve it
that's it
right and so you guys wonder why you're
stuck
so like
you know the quickest way to get rid of
motivation is to explain to people
that they don't deserve something
because then they'll stop asking for it
right if you don't think that something
is actually a possibility for you you're
not going to try it because you're smart
and i think that like when we kind of
talk about passion
and motivation and energy so i think
these are all umbrella terms
it's like what i need is like i would i
would be
i just need that magic bullet but like
there aren't magic bullets like human
beings are complicated
right so you guys are like like i need
more motivation i can't find
motivation whereas it's like i i don't i
j in seoul you may be a little bit
different but
um but i think for the most part
what i want you guys to really
understand is that like
it's your own judgment that creates the
hurricane that
keeps you trapped where you are
and that that hurricane like you taught
you are conditioned to judge yourself
that way so it's not in a sense it's not
your fault
it's just like other people place this
mantle upon you
and then you've like learned how to like
put it on every day
and then what happens is like they're so
so this is the real challenge is that if
you're
if you're stupid you're allowed to fail
and you can get up tomorrow and you can
try
right if you like i played a a game of
dota recently like
against a pro gamer like a good pro
gamer and boy did i get
i mean i got crushed it was like
laughable
and then after i was done i was like
let's play again
right because give me glory or give me
death like that's cool man
like all i and this is the thing is like
this is what i think is really awesome
about like our community and the way
that
we get misjudged by the world is like
they look at us
and they think we're pathetic and we
look at ourselves and we think we're
pathetic but i don't think we're
pathetic at all i think we're actually
awesome like we're
gonna be wrecking shitties real soon
here
right and and like what
the thing is but but if i if i have
expectations that i
like i am amazing
and then i like lose a game like then
it's so much more devastating right i
can't pick myself up off the mat
and that's what you guys can't do like
as the boat
like gets inches further and further
away from the dock like you can't pick
yourself
up off the mat
does that make sense like you can't
queue up again
it's like each time you fail it doesn't
help you
grow it like cripples you further
y'all with me yeah yes
and so then the question is like why is
that and i think it all has to do with
this expectation of what you're capable
of because if you flip it on its head
like let's say you
flip it and you say that all of you guys
are
you know suck at life
and you start with that and the funny
thing is jacob is like slowly working
his way there
right it's like relieving it's relieving
when you start begin to realize that
success in life is not based on one stat
that you guys have all these other stats
and actually despite having
one stat and you guys sort of understand
this intellectually but i don't think
you
feel it when you get up on a day-to-day
basis is that like you guys were given a
stat
that was so high that you didn't have to
develop these other things then you
blame yourself for like
not being able to succeed when it
depends on more than intellect
and i think our value our society in
general overvalues intellect because
intellect in and of itself is an
umbrella term
we call kids smart even if they're
hardworking
it's like what we say about people right
like oh you're smart things should be
easy for you and then if you start to
stumble what is wrong with you dumbass
things should be easy for you
and it's that part that keeps you guys
stuck
does that make sense yeah
yeah yeah i just have not figured like
i get that consciously but it's like
subliminally it still happens even if
i'm consciously telling myself that
absolutely i've been trying to like
clear up my house and like make it
better and then like
two days ago like my drain got clogged
and like the grinder got like shorted
and it's like
like not even my fault but it's like i
was still out for like the day just
emotionally yeah
right so so now you guys have a couple
of problems
which is that you all have been sitting
at this like halfway point for so long
that you all have become deconditioned
you've rusted
right so i want you guys to start
thinking of yourselves in a bizarre way
is like way worse than what you think of
yourself
like i know that sounds weird i know it
sounds weird so let me explain
so you guys think you're way up here and
then you beat yourself
up for being over here and so you kind
of think of yourself
in like kind of a negative way right but
at the end of the day like
all of this is built upon the premise
that you're up here
you guys get that you can't be a
disappointment without a high
expectation of yourself
and so what are you what do we do huh is
it true
w oh yeah not true
i'm a boomer um
so what i want you guys to do is start
like lowering your expectations
right and i know it sounds kind of weird
but like i think in general like i'm a
big fan if you guys have watched
me before of like letting go of
expectations and so like really meet
yourself where you're at
right and like understand that like some
of y'all are gonna be like y'all are all
like so the big so here's the biggest
scam of being a gifted kid
you know so you guys you guys familiar
with like league of legends and dota
oh yeah yes yeah okay oh yeah so let me
ask you guys something gifted kid
what position are they in league of
legends
mid laner
incorrect y'all are all adc's
you come online late disrespectful
and this is the big thing right is we
all assume that we should come on
online fast and early as gifted and
talented kids
hell be skip degrade
right so we think that like we're we're
like upfront powerhouses and it should
be easy for us
and it's not untrue but in my experience
you guys come online late and when you
hit the ground
running like it's gonna be like a sight
to see
and you will be all of the things that
you think you are but in order to get
there you have to start by not being any
of those things
you guys don't understand that like
y'all are actually playing
a handicapped class
it's not a gifted class y'all are
[ __ ] handicapped
and that's why like my my one of my
teachers told me like a special needs i
mean
a gifted child is a special needs child
and i was like what are you talking
about and then she like
sat down and explained to me blew my
mind that y'all literally have needs
that are different from other people
right like you guys have challenges that
are different from other people and sure
a lot of this is shared and stuff like
that
but i genuinely do think like y'all's
needs in the way that you need to be
challenged and stuff like that and
and that's why like the only source of
of like success for
gifted people is usually desperation
because that creates the environment
that is necessary for you
to thrive but if you just stop and think
about that like that's one hell of a
handicap right it's like
one hell of a way to min max your
character
my motivation is going to be purely
dependent on my circumstances and
whether i'm waiting tables and failing
out of college
it's like some hyper-specialized like
character that has like
plus a thousand percent damage and
resistance towards one enemy type and
does zero damage
and has vulnerability to all the others
that's what you guys are playing
and we can hear it from you right we
heard it from jacob
he's like if all the stars align i can
one shot
this shitty
but otherwise i'm gonna get wrecked
bros you guys are gifted y'all are
handicapped
wonderful and honestly that was my big
realization
it was like i'm not gifted
i'm dumb and then you're playing a
completely different game becomes way
more fun
because then like you don't beat
yourself up for your failures
it's like if you guys play dark souls
yeah
okay not most people you guys know what
a deprived is
sorry i get the deuce
right so like like there are different
characters you can be in dark souls like
you could be like a knight
have like armor and a sword and you can
be
like a mage and have like a staff and
stuff right like pretty straightforward
then you could be deprived which is a
dude with like
tiny whities in a club just like a naked
dude with a club like that's the way
we're gonna play this game
so my first round of dark souls i was
like i'm going to try to be as powerful
as possible and then i did terribly
second time i played i was like i'm
going to play deprived because [ __ ] yeah
give me a club give me a pair of undies
and let's go [ __ ]
and so what i'm not hearing from you
guys is let's go [ __ ]
right like when you when you think about
like applying to a job or working on
your resume or anything like that it's
like
oh my god you have to succeed like oh my
god you suck
oh my god you should be able to do this
better
why do you suck so hard you're so smart
i hear all that stuff what i don't hear
is like let's go [ __ ]
let's see what we can do
right like if you guys start to like say
that about yourself
think that about yourself like start to
get to know
who you really are because i think you
guys are also stumbling on this idea
that like
this person that i think i am is like
not who i am
this person that like society has
constructed for me is like not who i am
so who are you like you don't know yet
so like
try to learn
i feel like i've talked the most that i
have during any of these group
interviews so i'm gonna pause for a
second and check in with you guys
i have a question yeah so um generally
uh if i'm getting this right like our
problem is that our or one of our
problems is that like uh we're setting
our expectations too high and they
should be lowered because we're not
we think we're up here but we're
actually down here or something like
that yep how do we
how do we know where to lower our
expectations to how can we
possibly be objective about where they
should land you don't
need to be objective do we just start at
rock bottom
or not like rock bottom sure as low as
you can go okay
also uh i thought i thought earlier you
were saying um
that like with the analogy of fighting a
mouse
uh or like we think we're fighting a
mouse but it's actually a line
i thought you were going to go down the
route of like we'll raise the
raise the level of your problem like say
that it's
or realize that it's a bigger problem
than it actually is [ __ ] you and your
five heads
the result is the same right whether i
transform a
mouse into a lion or i turn myself
into a hobbit like the result is the
same
right right but one i have to like i
have to ruin my ego and that's really
hard you know
yeah so that's that's the that's the
other thing which is holding you guys
back
like i don't buy for a second that alcom
part of the reason he's joining the
military
is because he gets to be the person that
he always wanted to be
there is no way that you guys being as
five-head as you all are
on some subconscious level alchem
realizes that when he mentions military
everyone is gonna admire him i'm not
saying it's a bad decision i'm not
saying that it's
isn't genuine but i think that like
there's a reason why he's joining the
military after failing out of college
instead of before
right and i'm not saying i really really
do i'm not trying to no yeah absolutely
you're on the money on that one i think
yep
it's a it's [ __ ] ego because i i know
because i felt this like i see
myself in all of you to begin with but
especially
that's why i went to india and i was
like i'm gonna become a monk
because then i'll be better in all all
you noobs
so rather than be stupid even though
i've told i i was smart and i skipped a
grade
i remember like walking into my first
grade class but
in first grade i walked into the
classroom on the first day
and then the teacher like gave us a
worksheet and i did it in five minutes i
handed to her and i was like can i have
the next one
then she gave me the next one i did that
one in five minutes and then she gave me
like
the one from like two months from now
and i did that one and then she gave me
the next one the next one i was like oh
and then they moved me to the second
grade
and like back then i didn't have an ego
but like sure like as i grew up i was
like oh yeah i'm smarter than everyone
else
and so i know what it's like to not live
up to the expectations that you set for
yourself
and choose an alternate path that gives
you a sense of self
self worth i think it's good i think you
should do it bro it sounds like a good
decision and i think you'll
you know i'm not trying to but i think
all of you guys have to wrestle with ego
with identity and there are weird
versions of it
right like like said your ego
is kind of warped but like you still
think very
strongly about who you are and that
needs to be done away with
because you aren't who you think you are
oh how do i begin to do that
good question one that i don't know if i
have an answer
so so what what i've gotten so far like
if i'm putting this into like coding
it's like
like um if expectation too high
lower expectation forehead yes that's
that's the maneuver
or if expectation like so it
like be sort of pointed out there are
two sides of the equation right there's
the way that you rate yourself
and there's the way that you rate your
problem
and you can either respect so this this
is where like i love that you guys said
like i can't even do the most
basic thing and so then what you
conclude is if i can't do the most basic
thing
i must be really dumb
but what y'all need to understand is
that most basic thing is the most
difficult thing
that's not a level one problem that's a
level 99 problem
and there are reasons for that the
simplest of which is that you begin to
realize that actually the big and
desperate things are easy to do
it's the little things that are hard to
do it's the things that are irrelevant
that are the most difficult to do
it's easy to eat when you're hungry it's
hard to eat when you're hungry when
you're not hungry
it's easy to go to the bathroom when you
need to pee it's harder to go to the
bathroom when you need to be
it's easier to help someone when they
need your help
it's harder to help someone when they
don't
right so desperation is i get that you
guys long for it but like what y'all
need to understand is that
each of these little battles that you
guys are choosing to fight are actually
not easy battles they're very hard
like if you just think about it
logically like the fewer reasons there
are to do something the harder it is to
do them
and you guys have created like let's
take b for example like he doesn't have
a reason to leave the comfort of his
home
and so leaving the comfort of his home
isn't easy it's incredibly hard
so you need to respect the problems that
you guys face
instead of disrespecting them and
thereby like shaming yourself
if that sort of makes sense yeah
so how do i tell the difference between
me you know
setting my expectations lower in a
healthy way and
me saying well i guess this is a really
hard problem let's run away and play
video games for a week
so how do i differentiate between
lowering my expectations in a healthy
way and just using it as a way to
ignore the problem and also i think like
self-deprecating can kind of come eat
like if you like
if you're thinking about like lowering
yourself like it's it's i mean
like i'm i'm like i can be pretty doomer
sometimes like pretty like down in the
dumps and so i think it's easier for me
to like
sometimes just be like i suck but like
my ego doesn't really change i don't
really lower the bar i'm just kind of
like self-deprecating yeah so so there's
a difference between
having an expectation of yourself and
not living up to it
and lowering the expectation of yourself
do you guys understand you all do the
first one y'all don't do the second one
and the problem is that despite multiple
failures
your bar of potential never changes
what you're capable of never changes
and therefore each failure hurts more
and more and more
so i'm sorry said you had a question can
you ask it again
really good question by the way so
what's the difference between
um setting that you know setting my
expectations lower
or you know setting the problem higher
in a healthy way like you're describing
and just using that as uh an excuse to
run away from the problem entirely
i don't understand how those two are
like on opposite like
how does how does running away enter the
equation
oh so i could i could say oh man this
this is
this is indeed like way too hard for me
i guess i'll
i guess it's an acceptable outcome for
me to just stay in my room for
the next few years and play video games
i see so if you lower your expectations
and you and failure is to be expected
then it's okay to not try
yes what's staving off hopelessness
uh yeah
good questions let me think about this
so staving off hopelessness is a
separate issue
well i guess it's not actually i guess
that is the same question
so let me start by saying said that's
what you already do
right so like already you guys have a
there's no point in trying because
failure is inevitable and here's okay
this is tricky
it depends on where you are in time
okay so it's it's about being i know
this sounds weird but like
if you guys really want to know the
answer and y'all are [ __ ] being five
heads fine
because i wanna doozy you guys wanna
give me a hard question i'll give you
guys a hard answer okay
so hopelessness is your mind in the past
the
present or the future when you are
hopeless
in the future future good
next question is your mind in the past
the present or the future when you have
hope
present my experience the present
[ __ ] weird right who thinks future
i do i think it would be talk it out
amongst yourselves
because if you have hope um you
you think that there is something that
will happen
that is that what hope is that's not
what hope is
okay let's define hope if i think
something will happen
what's the word we use for that are you
predicting
certainty yeah certainty okay so
you guys are saying certainty or predict
i'm gonna toss out
wildword you guys may not be familiar
with it i'm gonna toss out expectation
okay so let's go back to
um bees so
tell us now i hope there's hope in the
past present future
what do you think where are you
when you hope oh i mean i well i'm in
the present
i hope but right
so this is really confusing because
hopelessness is about the future hope is
about the present
hopelessness is about an outcome or the
inability to attain an outcome
hope is acknowledging that we don't know
whether the outcome is there or not but
i
i want it so you're actually in the
present you're in the present looking
forward
hopelessness is about the future looking
back
and if you really tunnel down that's
where you guys
live right so when like said wakes up in
the morning and is like let me apply for
a job
his mind isn't thinking about the
present his mind is thinking about the
future
failure is inevitable there's no point
in trying it is a mind that is in the
future
that's what engenders hopelessness
why bother we're gonna screw up anyway
it's too hard
the common element here is a mind in the
future
now the real problem the real reason you
guys suffer from this is because the
more intelligent you are
the more the deeper into the future your
mind can go
and that's what really screws you guys
right so your predictive capability
increases
neuroticism or anxiety increases
generally speaking with iq
i think actually that's not true
well yeah that's not technical the way i
phrased it
i will say this anxiety
is worse in people who are smart
cognitive anxiety anyway
does that answer your question about
hopelessness or
no actually i guess i haven't answered
yet yet
so i just started with this right so
like okay who here still thinks that
hope is about the future
or that your mind is in the future when
you are hoping
okay i still think that but i i i'll
this will be like where i rewind the
video and
okay so let me let me explain it again
okay so for those of you who think that
hope is in the present help
help help us understand what your
perspective is
i mean to me hope is like an
experiential thing it's also a religious
thing but it's like
i don't know i i only think it could be
in the present because it's just like an
experience
strangely enough yeah like it's
something you feel like it's something
you
go through yeah you experience hope
you're like thinking about the future
like the subject is the future and what
could happen in it but like the
experience or the feelings you have that
come along with hope happen in the
moment
i is i think how i would describe it i
hope it's like a feeling
yeah but playing devil's advocate or
peace advocate you could also say the
same about hopelessness i think
yeah like it's thoughts about the future
but it's
in the present experience in the
presence oh but um the difference i feel
like is
with hopelessness you well when you're
hopeless you're
like almost certain or you have an
expectation even if it's not like a
correct one that um
everything's just gonna so turn to [ __ ]
this is this is
not certain so b this is how i'd explain
it
hope is you standing in the present and
looking towards the future
hopeless is you standing in the future
and looking towards the present
okay i'll have to think about it more
that's fine okay right so so if you guys
are talking about like you know how to
manage
this i think the the biggest thing is to
be present
focused because what holds you guys back
is like
a certainty or expectation of the future
that precludes action in the present
like your mind is literally making a
risk reward
cost benefit analysis and your
motivation so this is literally how your
work
your mind works okay so it's kind of
confusing
but you guys have this thing so we have
okay i'm gonna explain some neuroscience
okay
so since you all want to be five head
okay so we have
we have two systems in our mind that are
in our brain that tend to
like people get confused about because
everyone thinks about
motivation and reward okay so when we
think about like
motivation we think about the reward
circuitry of the brain and we think
about dopamine y'all are familiar with
this stuff
like most people are like amateur
neuroscientists
so like the idea is that we have a
reward structure and that dopamine is
the neurotransmitter that like
supports our reward structure and that
when we
get a reward it reinforces the behavior
and motivates us to act
right familiar with this okay
so we have a couple of different so the
reward structure
the risk benefit part of the brain is
actually not dopamine
it's actually a cannabinoid structure so
there's a different part of our brain
that does our risk benefit analysis
and we actually understand this because
people in schizophrenia or in some kinds
of neurodegenerative disorders
have something called abulia or a
motivation
and the really interesting thing is that
the people who are a bulic are a
motivational
their problem isn't necessarily in the
dopamine reward circuitry which is what
we think of it's actually in like this
risk benefit i mean uh yeah risk benefit
sort of
cost like analysis that you constantly
is active in your brain
that's the problem that you guys have
it's not about
a lack of reward it's like the
calculation that you all perform
about whether an action is worth taking
it's actually a separate circuit of the
brain and right now what happens is you
guys
make a calculation about the utility of
your action
and then you conclude that it's not
worth it to do
so it's not that you guys lack energy
and in fact you guys aren't you don't
guys don't even lack motivation
technically
what's happening is your brain is
motivating you to not act
does that make sense like if we think
about said what set is saying is that
there's no point in me leaving the
halfway point because
there's nothing good down the road
and so it's a risk benefit analysis that
motivates you to inaction
and this is why like all these like
[ __ ] videos on motivation don't help
people because you guys don't
you don't lack motivation what you guys
need to understand is that you're
motivated to stay put
you don't lack motivation to move
forward different
so then the question okay questions
about that clarifications
all good with me okay
i'm afraid that i may have bombarded you
guys with too much tangential
information without actually answering
your question
i mean it's a complicated question so
sometimes you have to go into tangents
to yeah
okay so let me try to like re-explain
okay
so um i'm gonna go back to sed's
question which is like how do i
if i lower my expectations so low
then what i'll do is make a prediction
that i'm gonna fail anyway so there's no
point in trying because i suck so hard
at life
right yeah so so the funny thing is
that's
already what scent does so he's making
it sound like it's a different thing but
it's actually the same damn thing
because right now he already does a risk
benefit analysis and chooses an action
you guys see that whether you think high
of yourself or you think low of yourself
he's coming to the same damn conclusion
even though i'm telling you guys to come
from a different starting place
does that make sense y'all really got to
follow me there
that at the end of the day he's saying
i'm going to fail anyway there's no
point in action so that's why i sort of
talk about this cannabinoid
risk benefit structure because it's the
same part of his brain that is still
running the show so he's not actually
adopting my premise
okay so and i'll get to that in a second
so
then sen's next question is then how do
i adopt your premise right said
you got me okay i i get that so like
we're walking you to that
so what i want you guys to still notice
is that as long as the risk
reward structure is
determining whether you act or don't act
you will be motivated towards an action
got it so now let me ask you guys a
question okay this is a hard one
let's go [ __ ] is that present
thinking or future thinking
present absolutely
but that's like literally not the
thought that you have right like
literally in your mind you guys don't
have the present thought you have the
future thought
there's no point present thinking or
future thinking
future thing you're thinking absolutely
so some of this so now the question is
okay what do we do
about it right so some of this literally
is controlling your mind because i want
you guys to understand that
you can cultivate particular kinds of
thoughts
okay now we're really going on a tangent
but i want you guys to
understand this for a moment that your
mind
gets conditioned what is it that
conditions your mind
our environment what impact is our
experience
okay so like how does our enviro so
there's the environment right so like
but environment itself doesn't do any
conditioning
when something happens to you you learn
about like
or you learn like you you interpret some
sort of meaning from something happening
to you that caused some sort of effect
and that
changes how you think exactly right so
it's the environment's
effect on you like it's not literally
the environment the environment
has to impact you there's like a there's
a there's like
the outside and the inside so for
example like if i have ear plugs on and
someone is talking to me
even though the environment is the same
like whether i have ear plugs in or out
the environment is not reaching me does
that make sense
so let's like think a little bit about
like you know if you were raised like
how have you guys been conditioned
you're gifted so literally what happens
is this like
stimuli from the outside create certain
thought patterns
and then you guys have beliefs about
yourself and those beliefs
live in your subconscious and generate
thoughts
so if we think about a phobia for
example like let's say i have a phobia
of snakes because i got bit by a snake
when i was a kid
how does that work like literally in the
way that like how does that work
so i get bit by a snake it generates an
experience the experience lives in my
subconscious
and then that subconscious experience is
a thought generator
which then like spawns it's like a
portal and it's like spawning
certain thoughts you guys get that
so now the question is okay if i want to
be present focused instead of future
focused
how do i spawn present focused thoughts
is that a good question that y'all are
interested in yeah yes
yes how do i change from there's no
point to let's go
[ __ ] and
part of that literally is that you can
condition your own mind by cultivating a
particular kind of thought
right so what we can say is that if i if
you guys like for example
all live in a house and i show up every
day and i gass you all up
i'm like believe in yourself man you can
do it bro
that's going to create a different kind
of conditioning right because like
the reason you guys don't believe in
yourself now is because you've been
conditioned to believe that you're a
failure
but at the end of the day what i want
you guys to realize is that whether i'm
there or not there the operative thing
is that what sinks in so if i show up
and i'm gassing you guys up but i'm
gujarati
okay
and so like it's what enters your mind
that's important do y'all
get that yeah
and so then comes the key thing which is
the cultivation of your own
thoughts and this is what really holds
you guys back
because i've been saying all along this
is basically the same thing that the
hurricane outside is created by you
it's the self-conditioning that gets
imposed every day when you wake up and
you think particular thoughts about
yourself
these neurons literally form channels in
your brain that are connections
and start firing more commonly so it's
kind of like a game trail like if i have
a field of grass
and then i run across it the grass gets
put down a little bit
and then like a deer walks by and it's
like oh there's like there's a path
that's a little bit easier to walk
across
and then the deer goes down that and the
grass gets trampled the grass gets
trampled and the grass gets trampled
your brain literally works the same way
that's literally the mechanism of
learning
right so like when i when we think about
memorization it's like we're running
that game trail
we're flattening that grass and then you
know something and it becomes
instinctive
so the problem is that y'all's neurons
have
been condit and that's what we call
conditioning so your neurons have like
cultivated a particular thought pattern
and so literally what you need to do is
cultivate a different one
and so how does that work that's because
you guys ultimately have some control
over your mind
right so i know this also gets weird but
there's the true self and then there's
mental activity
which are separate so there's
consciousness
and there's thinking and we'll get to
that in a second when i teach you guys
how to meditate
so what y'all need to do is like
literally in a moment in time
you can change your thought with intense
willpower
and a mana bar that's going to be
depleted every time you do it
but you're laying down a new game trail
so it's gonna be exhausting so like you
guys are literally gonna be faced with a
task
and you're gonna say there's no point
and the question is in that moment
can you tell yourself let's go [ __ ]
and now you guys have to be careful
because
you're still gonna fail and now we get
to
you have to allow yourself to fail you
have to be patient with yourself
understand that a tiny little mouse has
run through the grass
when you say let's go [ __ ] and then
tomorrow comes and there's like there's
like a
super highway which is i have so much
potential and i suck at life
and then there's this tiny little game
trail which a mouse has gone down
and then it's like hey let's do a few
push-ups today ah [ __ ] it i'm never
gonna be in shape
let's go [ __ ]
and then it's a rabbit and then it's a
deer and this is how
change happens and we see that process
going on with jacob
right like he's been in the [ __ ] for
a while but he's like getting some kind
of relief and acceptance
and i'd guess that that's like that's
not something that like he wakes up and
he's like
ah it's like i'm accepting where i am
it's like it's a slog
right like it's a slog and that's why
you guys have to be patient with
yourselves and you have to give yourself
time to change and you have to
understand that that
y'all are you know undoing anywhere
between 18 and 20 some odd years of
conditioning
and that the neurons in your in your
brain have have taught you to believe
this thing about yourself but this is
the other really important thing to
understand
is to have the revelation that this is
not
truth i don't know if you guys get this
you guys have
thoughts about yourself right
are those thoughts true
maybe not exactly true mostly
no so now i'm going to ask y'all because
y'all are gifted and talented
are thoughts accurate representations of
reality no
no sometimes
right
like if they were [ __ ] unicorns baby
so the first thing that like another
thing that you need to understand is
that you think all these things about
you but there's just thoughts like what
truth is there in the thought i had a
thought today that i was president of
the united states
i had a thought today that
cd projekt red mailed me cds
that have cyberpunk on them i can have
like thoughts just the [ __ ] thoughts
they have no bearing in real like real
literally like they have like no bearing
in reality
yeah i know you guys think they have
some bearing in reality that's a
conversation for a different day
experience has a bearing in reality
thoughts don't
so it's just thoughts that you can
cultivate thoughts
that the cultivation of thoughts is like
a slow process
and then along the way you if you are
expecting results
then you're going to be future focused
and you will not
continue the cultivation of thoughts
does that make sense
and furthermore so the reason i use the
word cultivation
what is cultivation
you sow the seeds and then come back for
them later absolutely
and what if there's nothing there did
you
did you cultivate incorrectly
yes no maybe incorrect
right so that that's the whole point is
cultivation
implies it's not creation
there's a difference between creating
and cultivating what's the difference
like it takes time to cultivate
something
creative and it's not cultivating you
absolutely so it's about certainty right
like creation is something i have
control over
cultivating is something that i don't so
i use some of this language like
very carefully because this language
like there's a correlation between hope
and cultivation you guys get that like
if you cultivate a plate like if i plant
a seed
like i hope it's gonna grow but that's
the most that i can do is hope
and the more you start living present
focus the more you say to yourself let's
go [ __ ] something magical will happen
which is that hope will start to be born
and the reason that hope will be born is
because you are creating
the circumstance which which hope
requires to be born
which is to have a mind in the present
hopelessness is
is a child of the future like by
definition you cannot be hopeless unless
you are thinking about the future
if the focus of your mind is on the
future you can be hopeless
if i'm eating a sandwich
and it's like tasty and i'm just eating
it can i be hopeless
not really it's like literally
impossible i want you guys to understand
this
it is literally impossible to be
hopeless if you were eating a sandwich
as long as your mind is on the sandwich
you're like damn this is a delicious
sandwich it can be a disgusting sandwich
but so so here's where the hopelessness
comes in if you start to think yourself
man i have to finish this sandwich
hopelessness boom
you guys see that god this sandwich is
[ __ ] disgusting
no hopelessness i have to finish it
[ __ ] hopelessness
so how do you be hopeful if you lower
expectations how do you fight against
the idea of not needing to do it anymore
you just stick your [ __ ] mind in the
present as best as you can let's go
[ __ ] you try to tell yourself that
third thing and we'll get to this now is
that like you can start there are other
things you can do
third thing is that you can train your
mind to be in the presence so that's
like
like you know it's like focusing your
mind on the present
is just like focusing your gaze it's
something you it's a skill that can be
acquired
and meditation is basically the most
direct skill that we use
to train your mind to be in the present
do you guys feel hopeless when you're
playing a video game
that's a good question
what if i'm thinking about the game
exactly
i'm thinking about the results of the
game exactly so you guys know this like
you guys know this [ __ ] man
when you're playing a league of legends
game and i you look at your draft
do you feel hopeless or not because if
you're if you're like if you're like if
you're thinking about how the game is
going to play out ah there comes the
hopelessness
you guys see that and then there are
times where you're like it's an
even game and you're not thinking you're
like okay let's do it like there's a
five-on-five engagement
around baron and like in that moment
you're not
like that's what's fun right and like
that's why it serves as an escape
because video games put your mind in the
present
that's why they're fun and video games
cause you to suffer
and that's when you're thinking about
the future in the video game
it's like a microcosm for reality which
is wild i love it so you can even track
your like enjoyment of games and you'll
see that like when your mind is in the
present
you'll be having fun
i have a question yeah so
i feel like well i mean every decision
made is um
for like some outcome in the future
right
how do you like how do you decide to do
things
and not think about the future like you
do you
apply to college because you have the
expectation that in four years you're
gonna graduate with a degree
how do you keep your mind in the present
always or like
how do you consider what you should do
in the future
good question unfortunately the answer
is roughly the same but i'll explain it
in a different way
so you can consider the future
but it's about expectation versus like
hope right so like i can say so like
let's just take like a
like so i'm going to talk about dota for
example because i don't know league that
well
so there's a hero dota called pudge
anyone know pudges
punch is like a fat guy that hooks
things okay and like pudge is the kind
of hero that like
has a skill shot which there are fewer
of in donut and then like the pudge is
like
the the pick that ruins your games
because you get a bad punch and then
he's like useless like he can't do
anything except for hook people and then
occasionally on the other team you'll
get a good punch and he's hooking the
[ __ ] out of you guys and pulling you
guys out of position it's like is the
kind of
gay hero that just ruins your games
because the enemy has a good one you've
got a bad one
okay so like when you play a game of
dota like
you can think about trying to win or you
can say to yourself
let's go [ __ ] right it's not really
about
winning or losing it's not like we're
gonna draft to win it's like
let's pick this [ __ ] meme combo and
wreck these shitties
and like when you play the game like
that it becomes more fun
like sure you have a calculation
somewhere in your mind about like what
the game is going to look like
but that's not where you sit you don't
sit in the future you sit in the present
and you're looking forward
does that make sense so our outlook on
the future
should be that we hope things go a
certain way
and then not really like put too much
pressure to
have them go a certain way and just
think about what we're doing now
exactly so focus on action
right like if the question isn't are we
gonna wreck these shitties
the question is let's try to wreck these
shitties like how do we wreck this [ __ ]
let's do it go for it and that's like
that's literally how like so
you guys understand this like if you
play a game like that if you play a game
to have fun like let's pick some meme
combo
and stomp these noobs and then even if
you guys get crushed you're like let's
do it again
right and like literally that's what
buddha discovered about life
is there two ways to live life
and when you start living life like
you're a meme lord
like it becomes fun and blissful
because every day it's like let's see
like what we're eating for lunch oh god
this sandwich is awful
let's see if we get wrecked tomorrow by
another awful sandwich
lulz that's literally what enlightenment
is
it's to treat good actions and bad
actions in equanimity
right because you guys know this that
like even if you get
trolled really really hard you can still
appreciate it
right and like that's it's silly but
like that's actually like the big thing
like
that's what they discovered that buddha
was like the ultimate
meme lord and he was realized he
realized that if you live your life like
a meme like you're gonna
there's nothing can touch you and you'll
be blissful irrespective of what happens
so you can think about the future and
this gets also into like ambition and
detachment which maybe we can do a video
on one day
but a lot of people like ask me like if
i become detached from the outcome of my
actions
how do i act because usually it's
ambition that motivates me
and ambition is based on outcomes
and the short answer is try it you'll be
amazed
because what you'll realize is that like
your actions don't have to be motivated
by ambition they can be emoted
motivated by like excitement and
curiosity
and all kinds of other stuff and just an
appreciation for doing what you're doing
right and like the people who are
happiest are the ones that enjoy their
work
because they're not thinking about it
like i work with a bunch of investment
bankers
and they hate their job and they like
do it for the money like that's no way
to live i mean
it is a way to live it's a comfortable
way to live but
and so like you can enjoy an action in
and of itself
if you just devote yourself to the
action
turning into a lecture other questions
um so i think we've like kind of
uh we've touched like around it but like
uh so
when uh i i think like for
for probably a lot of people in general
but but definitely for gifted kids we
kind of put down this
this like predetermined quest line of
you're going to do you're going to take
these classes in elementary school
they're going to take like honors
classes in middle school and then ap or
you're going to go to a collegiate high
school or something like that
um and then maybe like
more if you're like an immigrant kid
you're probably going to get pushed on
another questline of
lawyer doctor engineer um but
if you're not or once you're past that
how do you
start making choices um when you've
never made any
what paralyzes you from making a choice
b
the future yeah there you go
very good
so can you guys turn that into an answer
i see that you've connected those two
dots but i think it's hard to turn that
into an answer
so like do you guys have a sense
right so you just have to free yourself
from consequences
so it's like it's the difference between
studying for an a and studying to
understand the material
like why are you guys studying
and the more that you devote yourself to
like learning the material this is like
a big scam
in life right is that like
how let me think about how to say this
we devalue the thing that leads to the
result
and instead we value the result
as a proxy to the thing
right so like what we really care about
is like learning
like if you get hired for a job as an
engineer
what we care about is that you know you
understand engineering
but what society conditions us to place
value on
is great because grades are a proxy for
knowledge
and so the more that we get wrapped up
in like this
false thing it's just like all ego and
comparison
it's not actually about knowledge at all
and so the more that you kind of focus
on the thing itself like how do you act
how do you choose
you've been conditioned i get you be
like i was conditioned too
and despite my best attempts i still
wound up as a doctor
right and like the reason i'm a good
doctor is because i
didn't want to be a doctor and then like
at the age of like 25 i was like oh [ __ ]
maybe i actually want to be actually i
don't even want to be a doctor when i
went to med school
to tell you guys the truth that's
probably why i'm doing a good job
because i didn't
care about it like i became a doctor
because my teachers were like
go get a doctoral degree and i was like
eh
okay and oddly enough it's like doing it
for no reason so i was like
you know or doing it for my own it
wasn't about the prestige or anything
like that it was just like
i have to do this if i want to take my
vows and become a monk so okay
i guess i'll do that and then like i
failed right so i got rejected from like
20 medical schools a lot and then like
each of those failures it doesn't matter
because like i'm not going to really be
a doctor anyway i'm just like doing this
for the sake of like doing it so that my
teachers can be happy whatever
maybe there's an outcome somewhere in
there but i think i train myself to be
like present focused it's like okay
you get 40 rejections
like none of those rejections really
influence like whether i apply the 41st
time
i can take that information i can
integrate it i can get feedback
but i'm still going to apply again like
you can wipe a thousand times on a boss
and you can still like go in the next
day and like try to wipe again
right you guys have played dark souls
you understand what that's like
like it's very frustrating that you're
gonna wipe over and over and over again
but like
that's not the point it's not like you
don't you don't go into a boss in dark
souls and expect it down at the first
time
or a wow rate for that matter or ff14
you know that wiping is part of the
process but each time you wipe
if it doesn't [ __ ] you it makes you
stronger
right each time you wipe what i want you
guys to understand is that like
each failure in your life is gaining xp
and so it's about learning not about
performance
and that's why you guys are adcs
so what happened in my case is like i
was a no one for a while
and then i was an average person and now
like people think i'm
someone
i'm no different from you guys i'm like
probably just about where y'all were
when y'all are y'alls age
like we're no different the thing is
society
looks at me differently but like that's
because society is dumb
and you guys look at me differently
because that's y'all y'all are dumb too
seriously thank you because you guys
adopt the conditioning of society which
i don't blame you for but let's not call
it smart
because capability to you guys thus far
has been a burden
right it's a potential let me ask you
guys this where is potential in the
present or in the future
the future there we go
you guys are trapped in the future
there's
literally show me potential
what is potential in the universe
it doesn't exist absolutely there is
just what is
and so if there's no potential how can
you be failures
seriously if any of you guys can answer
that question
i will stop streaming
because if i'm wrong about this like
this is the foundation upon which
all of what i all the work that i do is
built
well i guess the only weird thing is
like by by that logic
uh no one can ever be a failure i guess
that is correct
okay
can you fail at stuff sure can i fail
can i get an f on a test
absolutely i've done it before trust me
but like this is the concept of advaith
vedanta
non-dualism so is there a good sandwich
or a bad sandwich
there is just sandwich
convince me otherwise right so the good
or the bad is what
we apply to it there's just a sandwich
is it blasphemy or delicious depends on
whether it's a blt and you're muslim
like you know like the the blt is the
blt
and like where we end up with it is like
wildly different based on some [ __ ] in
here
and you guys think you're failures
because of some [ __ ] in here you guys
aren't failures
there's no such thing you guys are just
where you are on your journey
like this is the only place you can be
how can you uh that's silly
i could have been in a different place
if i had done things like how is that
like show me anyone who's been in a
different place because they did
anything differently
reality is like one thing bros at least
until we prove like alternate universes
you guys start like dimensional shifting
to like other places like then i'll
eat my words
but until that [ __ ] is proven and maybe
one of y'all gifted and talented
aerospace academy kids will discover
this
you know so like that whole concept of
y'all being a failure is just wrong man
no such thing
enough for today
yeah i'm good awesome yeah
i learned that buddha is a meme lord
yes one of the greatest tricks he's ever
pulled on the world is convincing people
that he was something special
you guys know this like i'll leave you
guys with one last story you guys know
what zen masters do when they
when they uh attain enlightenment the
first thing that they do
laugh what because literally what this
zen tradition teaches you is that none
of it is necessary
none of the meditation is necessary it's
all scam that's literally what zen
buddhism teaches
because we're all already enlightened
and it's all a big meme like i kid you
guys not like if you go and study
buddhism that is what they will tell you
there's no such thing as like not being
enlightened we're all enlightened anyway
and it's like all just a scam
if people have you know studied with
this they'll understand that but it's
bizarre they even say they're meme words
like buddha was the original meeblor
it's like the original troll
i'm gonna teach you guys a bunch of
stuff that's really hard that you never
needed anyway
and then the his story of enlightenment
you guys know this
so he likes like meditates for a really
long time and he does all these really
harsh systems of meditation
he's like [ __ ] it i'm done then he goes
and he sits under the tree he's like
[ __ ] this [ __ ] and then he becomes
enlightened
it's when he abandons everything that he
gains his enlightenment
it's like this is all dumb
anyway a lot of good stories
okay so we've been at
uh um i i do have one thing
yeah that so like
the idea of like buddhist teaching is to
like not take anything too seriously
uh and like the thing that you're kind
of telling us is like something
the same like you know live in the
present you know
uh like what about like commitments
and like not necessarily commitments to
like like um
i don't know like if you have like a
family like have kids and like you can't
always
you can't always be like you know [ __ ]
it we ball
sometimes you got to be like okay like i
need to like think about the future of
my kid and like that can be
you know worrisome is that like a
healthy worry
good question so first of all buddhism
never says don't take things seriously
okay in fact it says the opposite but so
so like and
that's that may sound like a
contradiction with being a meme lord but
like
this may sound like a profound statement
but like
a meme is actually a very serious thing
right it's like actually very profound
but anyway so to answer your question so
this is where like we
we bring in dharma right so dharma or
duty or responsibility
so this is where a lot of people like
slip up because they think like
you know when i when i say let's go
[ __ ] that doesn't mean
that i get to do whatever i want to in
fact it means the opposite
so like what i would say about let's say
for example family attachments and
parenthood so i'm
a parent and i have children so i love
my children i'm attached to my children
i was pretty good at the detachment
thing until i had kids
and then actually what i realized like
oh this is pretty cool because then
i realized this is actually part of my
karma and this is the next level
because then what i did is become
detached from my attachment
and i i kid you guys not this i know
this sounds weird i had worked so hard
to be detached and then i had kids and
then i was like oh [ __ ] i'm attached now
all of my detachment has gone down the
drain now that i'm like loving and
investing my kids and then one day i was
meditating i started laughing i was like
is it that silly how attached i
am to losing my detachment
and so then i was like [ __ ] it i'm gonna
be attached i'm gonna love my kids
so be it and then it's been fun since
then and i just let myself
be invested in them i let myself
be worried i let myself stay up late at
night because one of them has a fever
and what i realized is like you actually
live life more fully
like let yourself be swept away by your
family responsibilities
so be it like it it makes no difference
like you can you can still
live up to your dharma and i think you
should live up to your time and like
living up to your autonomous simply it's
like taking a test i'm not saying
sit around and do nothing and don't take
tests i'm saying that you guys should go
out and you should act
but when i'm raising my kids i don't get
bent out of shape about whether i'm
doing a bad job
and now this is important to understand
so hopefully you guys can understand
this distinction
i've tried to do the best that i can and
i don't get that out of shape
about doing a bad job so i'm not saying
absolve yourself of all responsibility
and i'm i'm not saying
stop trying does that make sense
there's a huge there's an entire gulf
between
doing the best that you can and getting
bent out of shape
and what you guys do is the opposite
because y'all get bent out of shape and
don't do the best that you can
you'll see that
so oddly enough like you can commit to
your dharma
and this is the power of dharma is that
it flips those around for you
so a lot of other things that we haven't
talked about today the dharma is one
ego's one
dissolution of ego but if you start
living your time because then it's about
doing the action right like if your
family is depending on you
case in point so like what we see in in
uh
alchem is is like a sense of dharma he's
like i've got to do this
this is what i have this is what i owe
myself to take care of myself
and i can't live like this anymore
that's actually
on its deepest level it's a duty to
himself
that he deserves more and so he's
devoting himself to that
hope that answers your question
okay cool so i'm spent i'm sure you guys
are too
yeah so i think maybe we'll have to skip
meditation for today
i let me just ask you guys real quick i
mean like i usually don't talk this much
how do y'all feel about that
i think it was awesome yeah yeah okay
yeah okay
took a lot of the pressure off to
perform
well listen so so actually i have to
commend you guys and so like
be careful okay so watch what happens
when i say this last thing i'll tell you
guys i'll leave you hanging after this
so i think you guys are so smart that
like i didn't need to ask you guys
questions you guys asked such insightful
questions that i could give you answers
y'all are so smart that i knew you could
kind of keep up so it's actually really
fun for me
what does that do to you can't tell if
that's a meme
[Laughter]
i prefer when you're calling us stupid
yes right so there's a whole other
bucket of stuff like why is it that you
guys can't sit with
authentic praise
a lot of stuff you guys need to work on
but
and i don't know that you guys can't sit
with authentic praise i'm just making
assumptions
here but anyway strong work today
my dudes even if i did most of the
talking it's hard to get me to talk
so well played um
any kind of closing thoughts or
questions before we wrap up
um just thank you yeah this is like
really insightful and a good discussion
definitely learned a lot um so i just
yeah thank you thank you for having us
on here
um yeah yeah i'm not super familiar with
like
your work i've heard like a little bit
about it um dr k but
um do you have uh any recommendations
for like i know you said meditation
i have never heard anything about like
you doing meditation before do you have
any recommendations for things that we
could look at for that
yeah so we have a lot of like different
meditations on our youtube channel you
guys like they're just kind of there
i think for y'all i don't think it's a
good time to teach meditation right now
um just because you have to be sort of
cognitively there
but um i will think a little bit about
what kind of meditation for y'all
specifically
and and maybe we'll pop that up on
youtube once i think about it so like
what's a good
ego dissolving meditation but that
doesn't feel quite right to me
okay cool i guess i i can give you guys
sort of a meditation so there are
different kinds of meditations one is a
formal meditation practice
and one is something that is like more
of a
it's a different it's not an alum but
not so there's like alumni's are like
meditative techniques
so i'm going to give you guys a
meditative a meditation that is not a
technique so i know it sounds weird
i want you guys to eat something that
you dislike and appreciate it
so try that okay
okay i didn't say like it i didn't say
enjoy it i said appreciate it
so can you just like eat something
and like even if you dislike it
appreciate it try to do that and see
what happens
okay okay
good luck strong work thank you